hello and welcome to the second part of
epic tutorials best filmmaking apps for
the iPhone and iPad in 2013 and today
we're looking at apps for production
we've got some incredible video camera
apps audio field recording apps as well
as teleprompters and a bunch more that
will help you shoot better films on an
iOS device
now we've spent hundreds of dollars and
hours researching just about every
filmmaking app we can get our hands on
what we have for you today is our top by
production apps on an iOS system now
before we start all links to the answer
in the description field below click one
of those and it will open in the App
Store for you and if this helps please
subscribe and give us a thumbs up now
let's get things started when it comes
to filming your movie forget using the
default camera app that comes on your
iOS device if you want professional
results and a data rate that's higher
than a 5d Mark 3 that's right you heard
me you need the incredible app filmic
Pro which is available for the iPhone
and iPad this amazing app allows you to
control the focus exposure and white
balance manually and independently of
each other and lock them to avoid
exposure or focus changes whilst filming
it supports multiple frame rates
including 24 25 and 30 P and best of all
this app offers audio monitoring excepts
compatible microphones or audio
interfaces via Apple's camera connection
kit as well as letting you film at an
incredible 50 megabits a second if you
only get one app for filmmaking make
sure this is it as it totally blows
every other video camera app out of the
water now if you want to be able to
remotely control filmic Pro from another
iOS device then make sure you get the
app filmic remote which is available for
the iPhone and iPad and ideal for
multicam shoots you just need to make
sure all devices are connected to the
same Wi-Fi network filmic remote will
display the signal strength and you have
the option to use either a color or
black-and-white preview depending on the
playback quality you want this app gives
you full control over all the filmic pro
settings including pho
exposure and white balance as well as
the frame rate and data rate and it also
allows you to wirelessly copy clips from
one device to another making an ideal
for controlling multiple iOS devices or
just hitting record as you film yourself
because like me you don't have any
friends to do it for you
now if you want to transform your iOS
device into a professional field
recorder the app you need to do this is
Road record which is available on the
iPhone but it will run on an iPad
although in two times magnification mode
this will recognize external mics
plugged into either the headphone jack
or the lightening or 30-pin digital
connector and allow you to record in 48
kilohertz for film audio or 44.1 for
music productions and export it in a
range of lossless formats like AIFF and
WAV it features live monitoring and a
wide selection of iZotope powered
effects to help you to capture pro audio
on your iphone and ipad and export them
via soundcloud Dropbox and iTunes
file-sharing for inclusion in your film
and audio projects you can also apply a
huge amount of metadata including
location info making this a must-have
for any serious filmmaker and field
recorders now what if you want to add a
retro old-school film like feel to your
shots well there's only one app to get
and it was so good they used it on the
award-winning dokgo searching for sugar
man and it's called eight millimeter and
it runs on both the iphone and ipad you
can change the lens and film stock
simply by swiping through them for a
variety of different looks you can add
frame jitter by tapping the button in
the lower right for some pretty awesome
results making this perfect for music
videos or emulating classics like
Nosferatu if you previously shot footage
using another app you can import that
from your camera roll and apply effects
to it in real time as it plays back
after hitting record the only downside
to this app is that it only supports a
maximum a 720p resolution but with any
luck the developers will address this in
a future update now unless you have a
touch of the Rain Man about you you're
probably going to have trouble
memorizing
pages and pages of dialogue which is why
won't the best apps for the iPad is the
teleprompter app alley prompter by Ike
an international now whilst this app
lets you type a script right within it
or copy and paste text from an external
source elite prompt as killer feature is
that it supports final draft script
import from your Dropbox account it will
recognize scene headings allowing you to
import either the entire script or just
a particular scene another incredible
feature is the dialogue only import
option which removes all other elements
leaving you just with your dialogue you
have complete control over playback
including text size playback speed and
the ability to add cue points which can
be skipped too easily during playback
you can also control this with a
Bluetooth keyboard making this the
ultimate teleprompting app for mobile
filmmakers using an iPad well there we
have it those who are out top apps for
filmmaking production in 2013
I hope it's helped you can watch our
first part on pre-production here and
make sure that you subscribe so you're
notified when part 3 is out and that's
all on post-production where we look at
the best editing apps color correction
audio mixing plus much much more if you
want more iOS filmmaking videos you can
check out our how to film like a pro an
iPhone and iPad where we have an epic
filmic pro tutorial as well as look at
some excellent filmmaking accessories
for the iPhone and iPad and also how to
record pro audio using an iPhone or iPad
where you get a really good
demonstration of all the different mics
you can use and recording techniques
well this is all from me this week until
next time take it easy stay creative and
try and develop a rich inner life and
also check out our website epic
tutorials calm I've been Elliot Fitzroy
for epic tutorials